So, hey guys, welcome back.
And in this particular video, let's
understand more about HTTP in depth.
Okay?
So here I have a very great
article that is from the Cloudflare
that what is HTTP?
What is an HTTP request?
And a lot of things.
So right now, right now what do
you know is that, you know what,
let's understand, what is a URL?
What is this HTTP version?
What is a method?
You already know method, right?
Get, put, post.
You know, we have to understand
that what are these request headers
and what is this HTTP body?
So these are basically the components
of an HTTP request, like
what a request can contain.
Okay.
Similarly, you have a response
and there is a status code that
we have already discussed.
Okay, first of all, you know
what is an HTTP method?
That means when a client tries
to send or basically sends
a request to a server, right?
So this is what, this is a request.
Now this particular request can be
a get request or, or a, post request
or delete request, Put request, right?
So let's say that this
is a get request, okay?
So we know that this particular
thing is known as method, right?
This is known as method.
So let me just have an annotation
here so that you have the notes
and don't worry, you will
get all these whiteboard files.
Okay?
So yeah, so this is your
what, this is your method.
Okay, cool stuff.
Nice.
Then what happens when
you have a method?
There is something known as X
HTTP request headers.
Now what are these headers?
Okay, let's understand that.
What are these headers
which are sent along.
Guys, have you ever got
a parcel, A mail at your home?
A mail that looks something like this.
Like you have a line here
and let me grab one more line.
A mail that looks something like this.
Like it's a.
It's a physical mail.
I'm not talking about email.
It's a physical envelope, right?
So you get a physical
mail at your home, right?
Now if you see this physical mail
that postman comes and gives you,
on this physical mail you have some
like printed thing here, right?
This printed thing contains that
from where this parcel is coming or
from where this mail is coming
to where it has to be delivered.
It can have some phone number and it
can have the address, right?
Some landmark kind of a thing.
So this particular thing can,
contains some information
about this packet, right?
What is the weight of this packet
from where it originated?
And a lot of things can be there
on this particular seal.
So this is like an extra
information, right?
Then if you open this parcel, okay?
So let me just open this parcel.
When you open this parcel,
there is some data here, right?
This is the actual data which
is inside the parcel, Correct?
This is the actual thing
inside the parcel.
So this is the actual data.
Correct.
This is the actual data or actual
thing that you wanted to receive.
Similarly, in terms of HTTP, this
particular part that is on the above,
right, this, this meridata kind of
a thing, these are known as headers.
Okay?
These are known as headers.
So whenever, okay, sorry for that.
So whenever you are sending a request,
first of all you have
to specify what method it is.
Plus for every request you can
send some extra piece of data
which is known as headers.
Okay, so you can send
something known as headers.
Along with headers are nothing.
These are just key value pairs.
For example, there can be
a header of, let's say type that
what kind of type it is.
There can be a header
of let's say authorization.
There can be a header of xyz,
There can be a header of abc.
So these headers can have a value.
For example for type, I
can have a value of A.
For auth, I can have a value of B.
For xyz I can have a value C.
So these are nothing but just a,
key value pairs which
are sent along the request.
Okay, so basically extra information.
So if I have to tell you that what
these headers in reality looks like,
these looks like something like this.
So usually you have a header.
One common header is content type.
Okay?
This tells that what kind
of content I am dealing with.
So this can be adjacent data
and HTML data, something like this.
So here the key is content type
and the value is application/JSON.
Right?
And then there can be a,
header of authorization.
So if you are authenticated,
right, Authorization.
So you have to give your token, right?
If you have any token or something like
that, you can take along with that.
So you can have headers.
So these headers are basically
extra information about your request.
Got it.
So these headers are also
sent along with the request.
Okay?
Okay, so server can take these
headers, read the headers and based
on that process your content.
Okay, so you have HTTP headers.
So HTTP headers contains text
information stored in key
value pairs and they are included
in every HTTP request.
So you can see that this is what a,
request header can look like.
Authority, method, path, scheme, accept
what kind of data I want to accept,
which encodings I can accept
in what language I want the data.
What is my user agent?
For example, you can send that hey,
you are sending a request header.
So you can even add some information
about the client.
For example, hey, right now my
user agent, that means my machine
is a Mac machine, let's say.
So you can send this kind of data
as well in the header, right?
To tell the server, that I am
requesting from a Mac device.
Okay, so these all things
can be sent as a header.
Okay, now it can also have a body.
Now, now that's an optional thing.
Okay, so the body, the body
part is an optional thing.
Why?
Guys, tell me one thing.
If you are trying to make a get
request, that means you want
to get something from the server.
Do I need to send any
data to the server?
No, right?
There is no need to send
any data to the server.
In that case, body can be
left, Body can be ignored.
But let's say for some, like you are
making a post request, that means you
want to send some data to the server.
In this case you have
to include a body, right?
And this body can
contain the actual data.
For example, if you are trying
to build a Twitter, right
in Twitter you can actually send your
tweet something like this.
That what an awesome day, let's say.
Okay, so what you can do is if you're
sending a post request, you
have, you can send this body along.
Okay, so what the backend
will do is backend will see.
Oh, it's a post request.
That means you want to create some
content, you're trying to post some
content and then backend will actually
read your body which can be any data.
Okay, so I am sending a JSON data which
is like tweet and what an awesome day.
So backend can read this par,
store it into database and along that.
So this is your body.
Okay, in case of get, there
is no need of the body.
But if you are making a post
request, so of course it makes sense
to send the body along.
Okay, so the body
of a request is the part that contains
the body information.
Okay, the body of the HTTP request
contain any information being
submitted to the web server such
as username, password or any
other data entered in the form.
Okay.
So this was your request thing.
So your request contains a method.
Okay, that what is the HTTP method.
It can have headers
and it can have body.
Now let's go to google.com okay, so
right now what happened when I opened
this google.com let's go on to the
inspect element and I'll go into this
network tab just in case you are not
able to Find this you can find in
here list.
This network tab, basically
shows all the incoming requests
and response to the server.
So I am right now the client, right?
So if I do a refresh, can you
see that we made a request
to HTTPs to www.google.com right?
This is the request
that my client sent.
And this was a get request.
Can you see that?
This was a get request to which
server replied with a 200.
That means everything is
working you can see, right?
Everything is working.
So that's why I'm
getting a 200 response.
Then let's see what all
things are also here.
Can you see that there are
some headers that are sent as
a request Headers, right?
So request headers, are authority,
method, path, scheme,
what kind of encodings I can accept.
You can see key value pairs.
The cache control is there,
the cookie is there.
Then if I just scroll down then you
can see that you have something
like priority, you have scheme, you
have If you see I have a platform
of Mac OS 15 and which chromium
version I'm using, I am in a
desktop version.
So a lot of information is being sent
from my client, right?
And similarly, similarly I have
a response headers as well.
So these are all the headers that
the server sent me back as a response.
Okay?
So right now we are just
talking about the request.
So this is what a request
can contain and this is.
And what a server can accept.
Okay, now one more thing that
is very important for you is
to understand the URL.
Okay, let's understand
that what a URL looks like.
So let's say you have something
like HTTPs/google.com contact us.
So this is what a typical let's
say www.google.com so this is what
a typical URL looks like, right?
So let's understand
that what exactly is happening?
Okay, so this URL contains
a lot of things, right?
Now first this is your scheme.
Okay?
So this part is basically your scheme
that what protocol you are using.
So for example you can use HTTP, which
is like hypertext transfer protocol
or you are using HTTPs, which is
a hypertext transfer protocol secure.
This contains an SSL
certificate, right?
So this is your scheme part.
Nice, cool.
Let's move further then.
Then you have this particular
part, okay, I'm just talking
about this particular part here.
This particular part is
known as your naked domain.
Okay?
This is your actual domain
or it is also known as, or
it is known as apex domain.
So this is your actual domain.
Or naked domain, that is
google.com okay, so google.com
is your naked domain.
In this naked domain, for this
particular naked domain you have
something known as a subdomain.
So this particular part right here
is basically your subdomain.
So sub domain.
So these sub domains can be like
www.maps.google.com it can be like
YouTube.google.com it can be
something.google.com admin.google.com
so this is your subdomain, right?
So this is a subdomain
of this apex domain.
Okay, then then you have
this separator right here.
After the separator,
this particular whole thing.
This particular whole thing.
Let me just have a nice color.
This particular thing is known
as the path, okay, that which
path you are trying to access.
So this can be like slash contact us.
This can be slash contact
us, slash A, slash B.
So slash.
Then you can have something else
also that this whole is a path
that on which path you are
trying to make this request.
Okay, so this is your path and then
along with the path, then if
you have a question mark then
you can have query parameters.
So Q equals to XYZ and okay,
you can have something like
maybe sort equals descending.
So these are known as.
So if you have a question mark
in between, so let's say that you have
in question mark in between.
This is basically your separator
for the query parameters.
So, so anything after this question
mark will be considered as what will
be considered as query parameters.
Okay, query parameters.
So query parameters are what?
Basically this, these are some
extra key value pairs that
you can send along the URL.
So right now here I have two query
parameters separated by this.
And so this is my
first query parameter.
Okay, so my first query parameter is Q
is the key and value is XYZ
and my second,
okay, my second query parameter is
sort, which is descending.
So yeah, this over can decide to,
you know, take this one and you
know, read these one, separated by
an and operator and they can see,
oh, you are trying to access a
data which is sorted on the
descending.
So again server related thing.
So this is how your URL is constructed.
Okay, so now here is one thing,
this particular part,
okay, now now hear me out.
Very important, this particular
part right here, okay, that means
this part, this part is taken care
to reach to the server, right?
This part is for the DNS purpose.
So this part right here
helps you to reach to the correct
server on the Internet.
Okay then this whole thing, right,
this whole thing here is processed
by the server to decide what kind
of response to send to you.
Right.
And this is for the like scheme
for the authentication purpose.
Oh, sorry.
For the like, you know,
secure and transfer purpose.
This is for the protocol.
So www.google.com is just for reaching
to the server and anything
after that is for your server
application logic to process it.
Okay, so this you have to take care.
So right now like if I open
up the headers again and I do an enter
right now I am on google.com, correct?
You can see that I am
on www.google.com.
so if I open up the network
request and you can see that
I am on which part?
Okay, on which path?
Sorry.
So I am right now on slash path.
This means the root path.
Let's try to Open/,
XYZ, which doesn't exist right now.
See what happened.
First of all, I try to make a request
on this particular path.
So the path is XYZ, scheme
is HTTPs, method is GET.
And server sent me a 404.
That means not found,
let's say/XYZ/A/ B.
Okay, now you can see it is
again a, 404 not found.
And this is the path.
Okay, let's have some query parameters.
So how query parameters work
is if I go to google.com and so
now if I on google.com and I
search for, let's say cat.
Okay, cat, as a, coding.
Okay, so if I go on,
let's say this one.
So right now if you will see my URL.
Let me just take my URL.
My URL looks something like this.
Okay, this is what my URL is looking.
So let's try to decode, let's try
to decode that what
is actually happening here.
Okay, so I'll just expand this a little
bit so that everything is in one line
and let's make it white in color.
So see, you got the scheme, you
got subdomain, you got the naked
domain, you got slash search.
So your path is slash search, right?
And then you have a query parameter, Q.
I mean Q is for query.
That what you are trying to search,
what you are trying to search.
You are trying to search
this particular thing.
Okay, so server can basically
take this as a query
parameter and it can parse it.
Now if I copy this and I just paste
it here also you can see the query
parameters were already there, right?
So these are handy to store some
information right into the URL.
So this is how your URLs work.
Okay, now I think you have a very
good information about,
you know, what a, request looks like.
Okay.
What a request.
Just a request.
I'm not talking about response.
We were just talking about that what a,
request could look like, right?